Hello, how's it going?
I'm Scott Moss, and
welcome to API Design with Node.js V4.
Now, V4 means we had a V3, but
by no means is it necessary that you would
have had to taken V3 to take this course.
It's just an upgraded version using some
of the latest things that have come out
since then.
And also because I've been using
a lot of these technologies for
the last couple years and
I have different opinions and
different techniques that I wanna share,
and that's what this course is about.
So if you wanna go back and check out V3,
you can, there's different things there.
But you don't need to actually have taken
that course to come back and use this one.
And speaking of this course,
this course is really all about
designing APIs in Node.js.
And we're gonna be covering
a bunch of really cool stuff.
So if you actually take a look at
the course website here, here's the URL.
It's my github/API-design-v4,
you can land on this website.
You're gonna find a bunch
of really cool stuff.
And let's just go through the topics,
the big broad strokes we're
gonna be covering in the course.
So we're gonna go over just what
exactly we're doing in this course and
some of the tools and
why we're gonna be using those tools.
And what we're actually
gonna be building and
why I prefer to build things when I teach
versus just learning things a la carte.
We're gonna learn the basics
of APIs in Node.js.
So building out a Vanilla API
without a framework.
And then what is the anatomy of an API?
What are the little bits that make up
an API and how do they work together?
We're also gonna learn how to
use something called Express,
which is a framework for Node.js.
And everything about Express and
how easy it is to build using it.
And then using something called Prisma,
which I don't wanna spoil for
you cuz it's one of my favorite tools, but
this is gonna allow us to interact
with databases on a really cool level.
And yeah, I think you're gonna like it.
And then getting into data modeling.
So how to think about that.
How to create models.
How to design a schema based off
of a design, based off of an idea,
based off of something in real life.
How do you actually do that,
cuz that's necessary for an API.
And then getting into things like routes
and middleware, because without those,
our API would not be functional.
We couldn't actually use it.
So how do you design that in a way
where people can actually interact with
your API?
And what are the design patterns
that the community have chosen?
Authorization, authentication,
identification, all those different things
are technically challenging
when it comes to building APIs.
And we're gonna break them down so they're
really simple and easy to understand, and
you're gonna implement them yourself.
Route handlers, the work horses of APIs,
the things that actually do the work and
talk to the database and get you the
information that you need from a client.
We're gonna build those and
walk through those and
talk about different
trade-offs when building them.
Error handlers,
there is no point of doing all these
if our API is just gonna crush and
burn because it is so sensitive.
So we need to make sure we
handle those errors and
write code that is going to withstand user
input and different things like that.
And we're also just gonna learn how
to make sure our API is flexible and
dynamic, using things like environment
variables and a global config,
so we can change things on the fly
without having to make a pull request.
Keeping things fast is very important,
especially in something like JavaScript,
which is a single-threaded language.
So we're gonna learn about different
performance techniques that we can use
to take advantage of to make
sure our API stays fast,
just like it was from the start.
And then, of course,
everybody's favorite, testing.
We're gonna build all this cool stuff.
We need to make sure that it
continues to work and impress
all the people on our team by writing all
the tests and make sure those tests work.
So we're gonna do that as well.
And then finally, we're gonna deploy
this so you can actually use it,
you can show the world, you can connect
an app to it if you want to for
any further learning or things like that.
Are you guys ready to learn how
to design some APIs with Node?